or five depending on time zone Oh gasps
sorry
five nine ten some of the best time
zones oh I think here myself that's not
good
let us ok let us start recording
um can someone say something sure
okay he's very quiet
tada
that is more than enough all right
hello and welcome to the ipfs weekly
call where we get to learn about the
exciting things are being built in the
ipfs community so hello everyone um I'd
like to start off with thanking Alan for
taking notes and if you are part of this
call if you can just put your name in as
an attendee that'd be great
by putting in the Google Doc file now so
if you could just put in your attendance
I'll be great I don't think we have we
don't have any announcements listed so
we are going to jump right into the
presentation which is going to be done
by Matt and CTO of pinata and Fiona
pinata is an API where you can store and
use content on top of the ipfs a table
of ipfs so without further ado Matt
would you like to take it away
sure yay cool thanks for having me on
today excited to be here yeah
if one time let me you know how to share
my screen here and zoom real quick make
sure we got everything working well
already it's expecting a little bit more
warmup time with their announcements all
righty
share this off here
see my screen yeah perfect
all righty so a little bit of a brief
history both myself and my co-founder
Kyle we're from Omaha Nebraska got lots
of corn lots of cows not a lot of web 3
development but we're trying to get that
kick-started here we've been in the web
3 space for almost two years now we
started off doing blockchain consulting
and prototyping and mainly aetherium
based and we noticed everybody was using
IP FS for their data storage but
everybody was building their own
solution kind of you know everybody to
spin up their own nodes figuring out all
the problems that to work through
themselves we just didn't see that as a
very efficient solution going forward so
we wanted to come up with something that
allowed specifically etherium developers
and then web 3 developers to post
content on ipfs without needing to host
their own node manage updates and we
wanted to give it give them an easy API
to work with in the process so we built
pinata we launched I think G's October
last year around the time East Berlin
was not sure the exact date we've just
been improving it since then so to start
off with I'll give you guys a little bit
of demo of what our service is and kind
of some of the features that we have so
start off with a key point here is we
can add files to ipfs effortlessly so
let's say we don't have an account let's
go ahead and sign up for it here and
let's do I'll do ipfs call pinata cloud
and password here alrighty so it should
sign up here you'll get an API key and
secret key full disclosure this account
will be deleted after the demos over so
no being sneaky and trying to utilize
these keys for your own purposes
so we'll take people straight to the
documentation we fear it's a good place
for people to start learn a little bit
more about the system
so like I said you start off and you get
some easy an API key and then you get a
secret key and we like to include
examples with postman is usually an easy
one that people can be familiar with and
then we also like to provide JavaScript
examples for people as well there's a
lot of web 3 developers will build their
applications utilizing JavaScript so
without further ado let's give it a
little bit of a demo and see kind of how
this would work in practice so I'm gonna
bring this postman in here I'm gonna
take a soft screen for a second
grab my API keys and we can put them in
here so this is an endpoint that we have
that allows you to count tests to make
sure that your authentication works so
and go ahead should get a response back
here saying congratulations we're
communicating with the pinata API so
everything's looking good now let's
let's do a little bit a little bit more
fun than that so let's say we wanted to
pin an actual file to ipfs so if we go
to our Doc's let's check that out you'll
notice here we like to include little
photoshopped images of our of our logo
and various kind of stock images my
co-founder does a great job of that so
we'll come in here and we kind of see
our documentation will tell people and
you know how to format the body the
request file give you a little bit of
idea of what you're working with one
thing that we do allow is the optional
adding of metadata so we noticed that
people were uploading their content to
ipfs and it's kind of hard to keep track
of what they were all opinion you're
just gonna hash back you know what is
that you never really have insight into
what those hashes are actually what the
content is behind them so we allowed
people to that include a custom name for
their pins and then also provides some
custom key values so you can really name
them whatever you want we'll keep track
of those and then you can use those
later on for searching for your content
through our system so it can be strings
numbers dates it really kind of whatever
you want so let's let's check out the
postman example here let's see okay this
is kind of what we want to look like in
the interest of time I've got this a
little bit a pre pre demo mode ready for
you guys to go so let's go back in here
and let's add our headers back to the
pin file endpoint so you go in here and
we got a body so I'm going to choose my
favorite file here if I can find it here
we got or a big fan of the party parrot
here in the Midwest I don't know how
that got started but so it's a fun fun
little gift so we're gonna upload the
party parrot and you'll see here you get
this full screen we're including a
little bit of metadata here so we have
the name what's gonna call mr. parrot
PNG and we provided some key values
let's say our parrot works for the
parrot Cinco we can use that later to
search and find all employees of parrots
and company so let's let's give us a
little bit of a send here and we should
receive a request back awesome so we've
got a hash back and we've got the size
of that object we have the time stamp
for that object so we'll store those in
our systems that I'll get to in a little
bit what you can do with that data so
next in the list let's say we want we
already have content that we're hosting
let's say we're decentralized
application and we're hosting our own IP
FS tones but we wanted to duplicate our
content give it a little bit more
resiliency on the ipfs ecosystem and
then also we wanted to have that
metadata functionality that we provide
so we can do that and we can pin by hash
which is basically what it sounds like
you provide us a hash and our nodes will
go out and we will find that content for
you and pin it to our systems so I'm
gonna grab a hash here
this will be this will be a different
parrot this is gonna be our pirate
parrot so I have this pinned on a
different note in this ecosystem it's
the party parrot except he's got a
pirate sword and he also works for the
parrots and company so let's click send
here and this will go out our nodes will
find the content so we found it and
we've gotten the hash back
it's a clarification that yes this is
what we wanted to pin and we have the
pin size and again our timestamp um so
what do we do with this data let's let's
utilize one of our other endpoints and
let's say we want to search for all of
our our we'll call them avatars for our
parrots that work for the parents and
company so we can take our user keys
let's populate those again and okay
so our in point here go basically all of
our constant values we've kept those as
specific values for a rest end point and
then if it's a wild card you just
include a star there and then if you
want to get with the customized stuff
our metadata it'll look like this
the documentation goes over this a
little bit it's pretty pretty extensive
so I'm not gonna sit here and read
through the documentation all in front
of you but the gist of it is you can
search via the metadata you've provided
you can also search for things like all
of our end points here like our hash
contains you know when it was pinned
if you've unpinned it at a certain date
you can search that as well you can
search for pin sizes you can search for
things that are pinned to unpin doll and
then we also allow pagination as well so
you're not getting a thousand entries
back all at once and then like I said
the the customized metadata stuff so
your example values and example keys and
then the operations that you can utilize
to search for things so we have kind of
classic sequel we use Postgres to store
a lot of our metadata it provides pretty
fast indexing and responses so you can
use greater than you know greater than
equal basically all these classic
boolean values and then again we provide
response will show all the things that
you've got that matched your values here
sorry if this is a zoom in too fast I
know sometimes zoom can delay a little
bit I'll try and slow down the scrolling
and then our postman example again we
got that and also we provide a little
bit of a JavaScript example for what
that might look like in practice
so let's apply that in postman again
let's say we want to have all wildcards
and then the only thing that we care
about is our metadata that we associated
with it so we don't care about the name
we only care about the key values let's
say we want to search for the avatars of
everybody that works at the parrots and
company so we'll click send here and
you'll notice we
gotten back to counts we've had two
uploads that match those that criteria
so that's that's what how the API looks
like when you're interacting with it
there we also provide a nice kind of GUI
for people that don't want to utilize
the the API maybe some of your executive
team wants to look at things on a little
bit of a higher level or it upload
things to the system in a little bit of
a higher level so for uploading we have
our pinata upload mmm excuse me here
unless I could drink water
okay okay so we can upload files just
normally let's say we're going to upload
the Christmas parrot all right you can
show your your file size before you
upload it simple upload a little bit of
a progress bar there and you'll notice
it's now been pinned it's on PFS our
servers and then we also have a pin by
hash so on the on the GUI this works a
little bit different we wanted to make
this more of an asynchronous process
because it's not very fun to you know
click pin and then have it spin and then
wait you know five minutes maybe it
takes a while for us our servers to find
your content because it's hidden off
someone the ecosystem so we have the
concept of a pinning queue if you add
stuff to the queue our servers will go
and find your content asynchronously and
then when it's done it'll be added to
your your pins content so a good example
of this this is a book that I've found
out online there's a big old ipfs hashes
subreddit it's got lots of good hashes
if you guys ever need anything to test
so this one is a PDF and it's called the
ethics of Big Data which I figure is a
very appropriate thing for people to be
reading about nowadays so if we click
pin here
it'll add this to the pin Q and you'll
notice we have the name a hash and it's
status so right now it's searching and
we're going to repeatedly check back in
and wait ok see is it been pinned and
you'll notice here it just disappeared
from the pin queue which means our
servers have now pinned that content
already also it's just I like this image
a lot so I wanted to share it with you
guys
my co-founders good at the photo show so
what do we do with this content now that
we've pinned it we have the GUI for our
pin explorer so you notice we've pinned
four items here we have shows when
they've been pinned the current if
they're unpinned just shows
earth their pin they haven't been
unpinned they've currently been pinned
we have all of our PNM G's or gifts or
Big Data and we also have a gateway that
we host as well so you can view your
content through here we have those all
connected with our nodes directly so it
should load content a little bit faster
than if you were to go through a
third-party gateway because our yeah
it's directly connected to all of our
nodes again got a parrot herring so
little pirate so yeah there's the
gateway
it's a you'd no longer want to pin your
content well that's okay we can go ahead
and remove the pin and it should come in
here and unpin it yes all right so
that's been unpinned our servers are no
longer pinning it and you will no longer
be charged for that content so in your
account section you can see a little bit
of you know the number of items you have
pinned the size and then let's talk a
little bit about our our pricing I can
go over that basically it's it's the
typical kind of infrastructure as a
service or similar to like Amazon or
digitalocean basically we just charge
you at the end of the month for what you
have pinned and we prorate that down to
the millisecond so you're really only
charged for however long you have your
content pinned on our servers and then
we'll give you a flatness bill at the
end of the month and we also provide you
with one gigabyte worth of storage for
free to try out our system you don't
even need to add a credit card and then
if you do want to add a credit card
we utilize stripe as our as our payment
provider keeps things pretty secure and
easy from us or from our standpoint so
you can just add your credit card here
and go from there yeah that's that's
pretty much the gist of our system
if you guys have any questions I'd be
happy to take them now awesome thank you
very much you presentation that's wrong
wrong
okay if you have any questions if you
could put them in the check that would
be great - the first question um p'malee
does your name field need to be unique
no it does not we we don't require that
is an actual as a as a requirement so we
figured that if people wanted to name
things the same thing you know we'd let
them
we have other unique identifiers like
the hash to keep them separate but if
keep things unique you know obviously
don't name things the same
thank you the next question is from Davi
oh you want me to write a matter what -
oh you can you can have the honors
nowhere is so W asks how much storage
does pinata have available nowadays is
it using ipfs cluster to connect more
nodes / disks okay um so storage
available right now we have I think it
was 200 gigabytes is what our note is
set to and we just gradually increase
that as more users add content to our
system it's pretty flexible
we utilize block block storage so it's
pretty easy for us to increase the size
of our nodes on demand and then in terms
of ipfs cluster so we're currently not
using ipfs cluster and that was a choice
made in the beginning there were some
things that I wanted to do with our
system that it didn't appear that ipfs
cluster can do for us recently I've
learned that ipfs cluster can do that
now so we are planning on implementing
ipfs cluster into our system in the
upcoming months I was just a decision I
made early on that suited our needs but
those ability abilities of IPs of ipfs
cluster seem to be able to accommodate
that so we're definitely looking to add
that plans on adding more user Keys for
differentiated access tracking
um could you excuse I'm not yeah
absolutely into what I mean here is like
if you are like just building gaps right
like you don't want to sell it to give
like your access token for your P&L
service single user that opens your
eared app so you want to create like a
justice bulky that is just for that user
would that require today I creating
multiple PDA accounts for each user and
like tracking all of them or is there a
subsystem there where I can just like
create keys on the fly for the users
yeah yeah that's a great question so no
current we don't have that you're
actually the first person that's asked
for that so that's it's a good thing to
throw up on our roadmap I like that
concept but yeah so right now if you
wanted to have multiple sub accounts you
just basically create multiple multiple
keys let's see when you pinned you ping
other ipfs gateways to make content more
widely available we don't do that we
utilize our our gateway right now it's
the kind of primary source of retrieving
that information there was a suggestion
I remember seeing that on forums
somewhere about paying other gateways
that seemed kind of like spamming the
network and kind of seemed like a little
bit of a almost abuse of the way that
the DHT works so we we haven't been
doing that I guess since you are with
protocol Labs is that a sanctioned
activity that we're allowed to
participate I always not suggesting just
that's the I think as a good citizen of
the network we definitely she knows I
could use the other gateways to you I
could use them as your CDN nevertheless
for data that is like very rare like
whether it's just like one copy it's
just like yeah it might be useful to
give it a little bit more variability by
just like pinging randomly some other
gateway just like for at least for a
period of time to a few
replicants of course like windows
gateways execute a garbage collection
event then then the file will be gone
and so by then you should have another
plan to make sure that the number of
replicas still stays high yeah that
makes sense
so a little bit from our strategy what
we're going for is we're planning on
basically one of our one of our goals is
to kind of increase the number of nodes
that we have under pinata and the number
of gateways that we have under pinata so
similarly to how I think ipfs io has a
bunch of different gateways all around
the world I know it's masked under your
main domain but it's my understanding
that they're all connected under the
hood and that's kind of the approach
that we'd like to take so have a bunch
of different gateways and kind of
connect them all via the the the swarm
connect feature that ipfs and bootstrap
as well Oh lots of questions coming in
does Bill and understand deduplication
yeah it sure does so if you if you
upload the same content to ipfs more
than once basically we'll just count
that as the same entry so if you upload
the same file two times yeah we we only
you only charge you once that item it'll
actually only show up once in our our
system is the same record where'd we go
um Alan yeah Alan please tell us their
question oh I just read them down a bit
later in the chat so to skip ahead okay
so that's good yeah so a male great
question so with the the time out
functionality for hash to add right now
that's a synchronous call we have well
we have since this is a good so pin hash
to ipfs so this is the the main end
point to do that with and if this times
out we talked about this a little bit so
talks about different ways that they can
timeout through miss configuration the
nodes offline or you know the contents
kind of sheltered from the network and
it takes us a while to find it so I
think it's
go inside - nine minutes is when the
timeout is and then if it times out what
happens is we just get a message that
that hash has then been added to the
queue for pinning and what happens is
our services will go through and will
repeatedly check to try and repin that
content so yeah we'll just kind of keep
checking until we find it and then
hopefully we'll find it at some point
yes what's in the works let's what
features are you excited about Oh
briefly I'm gonna go back it's popped in
my head Molly I'm also if you don't want
to do asynchronous requests for painting
by hash you can utilize the add hash to
pen queue endpoint and that'll just
asynchronous asynchronously added to the
queue Thank You traits whether there was
any timeout on the queue but it sounds
like you just check forever yeah that's
it was kind of an MVP thing right now it
didn't really hurt our system to
repeatedly check we have it set up in a
way so it's not really creating a lot of
overhead if that becomes a system and
the problem in the future I might have a
timeout after a couple days of checking
but so far it hasn't been an issue I
figured out kind of one of the
statistics on how people were utilizing
the system before implementing any
changes like that let's see what's in
the works what features are you excited
about one thing we're working on right
now is IP NS people have been excited
about hosting their own websites and
kind of dynamic blogs and stuff
utilizing ipfs well I PMS so we're
looking at utilizing IP MS and then also
DNS link as well to give people a little
bit of options there and then we're also
looking to add in a near-future the
ability for you to kind of get a little
bit more control over where your
contents being hosted at so what region
of the world it's being hosted at
where'd we go are you planning to open
the code base for pinata cloud yeah so
right now it's it is closed source and
that was mainly news
dirty shoes right now I am a one-man dev
shop so I wanted to make sure that we
had some external kind of eyes on our
code before we release it to the public
but yeah it's it's definitely something
that we constantly have on our roadmap
we're a fan of open source which we've
learned from open source so we'd like to
give back to the community at some point
whether it's through the main API in the
main pinata service or whether it's
through one of our upcoming products
that we have oh where was it my track of
the questions Oh
metadata stored in ipfs IP LD ie does
adding custom metadata change the
resulting hash no so it doesn't right
now we store metadata in Postgres we
found that that was the we wanted to
prioritize user functionality at this
point so I realized that's not the most
decentralized however by nature our
service is kind of centralized so if
we're gonna have that already we wanted
to make sure that you were getting the
fastest kind of indexing and searched
ailable through the metadata and
Postgres was a great solution for that I
already read his question we are running
a bit short on time so do you mind if we
go to the next question by Adi
oh yeah sure what features from ipfs
ipfs cluster can help drive down costs
closer to AWS oh that's yeah that's
that's a it's an interesting one so I
guess the main one I think this was
talked about I think this was talked
about on a couple of github issues
through one way or the other one of the
things I've been gunning for is the
ability to track bandwidth on a per hash
basis so if one person if one hash is
utilizing a ton of bandwidth it doesn't
really make sense to kind of
artificially inflate everybody else's
get gigabyte cost for that and right now
there Kyle bring this in very odd and
then yeah so we're hoping to do that and
then also
another thing is with file coin and also
kind of just the decentralized network
as a whole we hope to kind of expand our
ecosystem to bring in more kind of
third-party providers so that we're not
the only people hosting content har1
it sounds like you have a question as
well hey I am the developer for custard
so I'm very happy to see can you hear me
yeah yeah I sure can happy to see the
humanity yeast cluster and I'm also
happy to see that we support most of the
features that you need already yes sir
so we should discuss to see what it is
missing so that we can just prioritize
it in our roadmap yeah absolutely
um I commented this on on the I think
it's either an email or on the github we
do use a lot of node so if there would
if there ever is an IP FS cluster
JavaScript API that'd be nice but I mean
that's always something that we can kind
of start to create ourselves once we get
a little bit bigger in terms of staff
and I hope what we contribute yeah can
contribute back to the community and
that way if you guys haven't been able
to get to that by then that'd be great
yeah
David asks the Vedas would you be ready
to handle a few terabytes so yeah our we
utilize digital ocean right now for our
storage and those block storage
currently handles up to 16 terabytes so
yeah we can expand up to 16 terabytes
per node in terms of the performance on
that it might be a little questionable
at first we'd probably have to upgrade
our specifications on our node to make
that work as well also before I go off
the call here I'm just happy my founder
order this in the mail I wanted to show
this off
or eighth number with us don't smash it
it's gonna have its own suitcase fly out
to the southwest so cool well thanks for
having me
Matt thank you so much for joining us at
CFS weekly coffee
we really appreciate it this is great
and for everyone else thank you for
thank you so much for joining us we'll
be here same time next week and if you
are actually building something with
ipfs if you have a project then please
let us know and we would love to have
you present as well thank you everyone
and I will see you next week bye bye
Becker